8. Temporary Event Notices
A Temporary Event Notice (TEN) is notification of an event which
will include a licensable activity, and which will often take place
at a venue not covered by a premises licence or a club premises
certificate which permits that activity. To hold a temporary event,
a notice must be given to the licensing authority, the police and
environmental health.
No authorisation is required, unless there is an objection. Under
the Licensing Act 2003, the police and environmental health can
object to a TEN within three working days if they believe it would
undermine any of the licensing objectives. Should an objection be
lodged to a standard TEN the licensing authority will determine the
TEN at a hearing. If an objection to a late TEN is lodged there is no
right to a hearing and the TEN may not go ahead.
There are a number of rules that apply to TENs:
There’s a minimum period of
24hrs between events at the
same premises when given by
the same user or associate

Only 15* TENs per year
can take place at the
same premises

Ensuring no more than
499 people attend at any
one time

i

Someone who does not hold a
personal licence is only allowed
to give up to five TENs per year,
where the number of late TENs
issued does not exceed two

The total duration of periods
covered by a notice in
respect of the same premises
can be no more than 21* days

Temporary
Event
Notices
(TENs)

An event can only
last for a maximum
of 168 hours

They must be given
by someone over
the age of 18

A personal licence holder can
give up to 50 TENs per year,
where the number of late TENs
issued does not exceed 10

15 and 21 extended to 20 and 26 respectively in 2022 and 2023.

*

28

There are two types of Temporary Event Notices: standard and late.
A standard Temporary Event Notice must be given no later than 10
working days before an event is due to take place. A late Temporary
Event Notice must be given no later than five working days before
an event is due to take place. This notification can be given either in
writing or electronically by the premises user.
Notice of a standard TEN must be given a minimum of 10
clear working days before the event is scheduled to begin,
and for a late TEN a minimum of five clear working days must
be given before the event is scheduled to begin.
These days are exclusive of the day of the event and the day of
receipt. So, for an event to be held on Saturday 18 September, a
standard TEN must be given by Friday 3 September. For a late TEN,
this notice can be given as late as Friday 10 September.
Premises which are to be used under a TEN must be described in
the notice. The notice of the TEN must be displayed throughout the
duration of the event.
Notice of cancellation of a temporary event has to be given to the
licensing authority no later than 24 hours before the time specified
for the start of the event.

What you need to know
The Premises Licence
i. Notice must be received by the licensing authority, the
police and environmental health
ii. A personal licence holder can issue 50 TENs per year,
where the number of late TENs issued does not exceed
10
iii. A non-personal licence holder can issue five TENs per year,
where the number of late TENs issued does not exceed
two
iv. An event under a TEN cannot run for longer than 168
hours.

Now complete activity 8 on page 69
29

